[Music]
Now, please
listen to the music for a while.
[Music]
When we chant at a funeral,
we can be the one offering
incense while the person reciting the scriptures holds the microphone.
Or, if not, we offer incense and
then someone next to us can give
us the microphone so we can chant, and the
microphone can be placed on a speaker so that
everyone in the family
and relatives can hear
the scriptures, so that they can cultivate
good intentions during the chanting. We sincerely
offer our prayers with sincere hearts,
sending incense to the
Buddhas and Bodhisattvas throughout the world, offering to the Three Jewels,
choosing to uphold the Dharma according to our true nature,
doing good for all sentient beings in the Dharma realm, praying for the
Buddha's protection, a firm Bodhi mind, and steadfast
cultivation of the Dharma, far from
the ocean of suffering and the source of delusion, quickly returning to the
shore of
enlightenment. Namo Incense Offering Bodhisattva, Namo
Incense Offering Bodhisattva, Namo Incense Offering Bodhisattva Maha.
[Music]
Bodhisattva, Namo Buddha Shakyamuni,
we respectfully pray to all
Buddhas and Bodhisattvas.  O Venerable Saints and Sages, descend upon this
altar to witness and bless
us,
your disciples, who are
devoted practitioners at Ba Vang Temple today. At
the invitation of the family of devotee Nguyen
Van A, we respectfully recite the Sutra of the
Ullambana Festival,
together with the family, to dedicate the
merits to the departed soul of
Nguyen Van
B. On this auspicious occasion, we respectfully invite all
benevolent deities and spirits to descend upon this altar to
listen to the sutra and the Dharma, and to support
us. We also invite the
ancestral spirits of the devotee's family, as well as
all other departed souls, to
gather at this Dharma Assembly to listen to the sutra and the Dharma. Namo
Van Lai Tap Bodhisattva Maha Sattva, Namo Van
Lai Tap Bodhisattva Maha Sattva, Namo Van Lai Tap Bodhisattva Maha Sattva. After offering
incense,
we will proceed to the
Buddha's praise. Then we will use the Dharma instrument, the ceremonial bell, the bell of the
Supreme Dharma King, the one unequaled
teacher of the three realms, the
benevolent father of all beings, the four
kinds of beings who take refuge in the Buddha. With one thought, we completely eradicate karma, proclaiming the Buddha's name and the Bodhisattva, the Buddha's
assembly for countless eons
without end.
The emptiness of the mind, the silent path of
compassion, the inconceivable
net of the imperial court,
the ten directions of the Buddha's radiant light,
before the radiant light, the image of the
virtuous one bows down and asks for the vow of the precious
robe. With sincere devotion, I pay homage, fulfilling the promise of not changing the Dharma realm, the present and the future. The Buddhas, the venerable Dharma, the virtuous and holy Sangha, the ever-present Three Jewels, with sincere devotion, I pay homage, the founder of the world, the original teacher, Shakyamuni Buddha, the future Maitreya Buddha, the Great
Wisdom Manjushri
Bodhisattva, the
Great Practice Samantabhadra Bodhisattva, the Dharma Protector, all the Venerable Bodhisattvas, the assembly of Buddhas and Bodhisattvas, all the virtuous and holy ones.
[Music] Sangha, with sincere devotion, I pay homage.
Namo Western Pure Land of Bliss, Great Compassionate and Merciful
Guiding Teacher, Amitabha Buddha,
Great Compassionate Avalokiteshvara Bodhisattva, Great Power Bodhisattva,
Great Vow Ksitigarbha Bodhisattva, Pure and Great Compassionate Bodhisattva.
[Music] With sincere devotion, I pay homage. Namo
Eastern Pure Land of Lapis Lazuli,
Medicine Buddha, Lapis Lazuli Light King Buddha,
Sunlight Bodhisattva,
Moonlight Bodhisattva, Eastern Pure Land.
[Music]
The assembly of Buddhas and Bodhisattvas, Pure Great
Ocean, all
Holy Assembly, Night comes, the
opening of the gong and drum
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Music] The fragrant
incense of the Goddess of Fragrance, the fragrant incense of the Goddess of Fragrance, has just ignited the sandalwood,
throughout the realm of the Dharma, the fragrant Thy Hai
Assembly, all Buddhas follow,
offering great blessings, pure
and wholesome, earnestly expressing their sincere hearts, the entire body of the
Buddhas manifests to save,
Namo Hương Vân cải Bodhisattva Maha Sattva, Namo
Hương Vinh cải Bodhisattva Maha Sattva, Namo Hương Vân cải
Bodhisattva Maha Sattva,
mantra for purifying speech karma, An Tu lì tu lì ma ha tu lì tu tu lì sat ba ha, An tô
lị tô lị ma ha tô lị tô tô lị sat ba ha, An t lị tu lị
ma ha tu lị tu tu lị sat ba, mantra for
purifying body karma, An Tu đa lị tu
đa lị tu ma lị sa ba ha, tu đa lị tu đa lị tu ma lị
sa ba ha, An tu đa lị tu đa lị tu ma lị sa ba ha,
mantra for purifying three karmas, An x  The mantra of the Buddha, the Dharma of Samadhi, the Bodhisattva Samadhi, the Bodhisattva Samadhi, the Bodhisattva Samadhi, the Bodhisattva Samadhi, the Bodhisattva Samadhi, the Bodhisattva Samadhi, the Bodhisattva Samadhi, the mantra of the
Earth God, Namo Tam An Da Mot Da Nam An Do Ro Do Ro Dia Vi Tat Ba Ha, Namo Tam Am Da Mot Da Lam An Do Ro Do Ro Dia Vi Tat Ba Ha, the
mantra of the Buddha, the
teaching of the Buddha, the teaching of the Buddha, the teaching of the Buddha, the profound and wondrous Dharma, the teachings of the Buddha
...  Once, when the Buddha was in the
Jeta Grove, in the city of Jeta Grove,
with over twenty thousand
monks and Bodhisattvas, the World Honored One and the great assembly, during a
time of leisure,
went south and saw a pile of dry
bones as high as a mountain. The World Honored One bowed down and said, "O
World Honored One,
you are the most revered and respected teacher in the three realms, the Father of the
Four Kinds of
Heaven and Earth, whom all teachers respect.
Why do you bow to these dry bones?
Ananda, you, though you have been ordained and
studied with me for so long, have not yet
heard of
these dry bones. Whether they are your grandparents or
your parents from countless eons ago, you are far removed from them.
Therefore, I only
offer this prayer and bow down to you, dividing them into two
parts: one for men and one for women. Please
distinguish them for
me." The World Honored One replied, "I see that in this world,
everyone recognizes a male as a man and a female as a
woman. The deceased are all mixed together;
how can we distinguish them?"
This was a benefit to the Buddha.  "Oh, Lan, when you return
to the Lam realm, your complexion deteriorates, and you don't even mention it, you
feel
worse. As for women, during their lifetime, they give
birth many times to infants, suffering greatly from blood loss.
Each time they give birth, thick blood
flows out, six measures out of each child. Each child drinks three
barrels and four
measures of milk, and their bodies lose their vitality.
Therefore, their bones become light and
dark in color. Hearing the Buddha's words, I felt immense pity for my
mother, who had suffered so much. Thinking of this, I immediately bowed and said to the
Buddha, 'O Venerable Buddha, the gratitude to parents is like a vast ocean, immeasurably deep. How can I ever repay it? I humbly beg the Buddha to soothe my heart with
compassion and teach
us.' The Buddha replied, 'Oh, Lan, regarding the gratitude to your
mother, for ten months of carrying and nurturing you, the suffering is immeasurable. At first
month in the womb, you are like a bone
stuck to a blade of
grass, still in the early morning, barely clinging to life. At
two months in the womb, it's
like thick milk, barely formed. At three
months in the womb, it's
like a clot of blood, thick, red, mindless, and
senseless. Only at four months in the womb does it begin
to take
human form.'"  When a child is five months old in the mother's womb, the
limbs, head, and brain are fully formed. When a child is six
months old, the
eyes, ears, nose, mouth, body, and
mind are fully formed. When a child is three months old in the mother's womb, all
360 vertebrae and
eighty-four thousand hairs are fully formed. When a child is
eight
months old in the mother's womb, the internal organs are fully formed,
the will is fully developed, and the nine orifices are fully
opened. When a child is nine months old in the
mother's womb, the human form is fully formed, sitting in the
mother's belly, thirsty for water. When not eating fruits or grains, the internal
organs are formed, the body descends, the internal organs
ascend, and there is a series of three
fruits: one is Mount Sumeru, two is the mountain of karma, and three is the
mountain of blood and the mountain of worship. At the same time,
blood flows into the
mouth in the mother's womb for ten
months, perfectly complete, until the day of
birth. If the child understands, clasping hands and forming a form,
accepting the faults and coming out without causing the
mother pain. If the child is unfaithful, struggling and writhing in the sea of ​​pain, the mother's heart aches,
like being punched, stabbed, clawed, scratched,
like a thousand knives stabbing into the mother's liver and intestines, causing
immense suffering. How can I express it all? I am so happy to
have this body, so joyful to see it.  The
Buddha said to Ananda, "The gratitude to one's mother consists of
ten things. Every child must take care of their filial piety."
[Music] 1.
Remember the gratitude to my mother for nine
months and ten days of carrying me, a heavy burden.
Remember the gratitude to my
mother for giving birth, for the immense pain of childbirth. 3.
Remember the gratitude to my mother for giving birth,
for forgetting all worries. 4.
Remember the gratitude to my mother, for bringing me the bitterest things and saving the sweetest things for me. 5.
Remember the gratitude to my mother, for lying in the wet places and helping me with the baby's diapers.
Remember the gratitude to my mother for feeding me, for carrying me in her womb ...
B6. The gratitude for the mother's devotion is
immense, like the earth's depths, the seashell's stillness, the
changing of clothes, the
sausage's transformation, the transformation of the mother's body, the
second grace of the mother's life, the
hardship and suffering of
carrying the child for ten months, the toil and suffering of countless days of
standing, sitting, and walking, the appearance like a corn cob, the
fear, worry, and anxiety of the birth itself. The
third grace of the mother's life, the birth of the child, the
opening of the body, the soul like a dream, the mother's
blood overflowing, waiting to hear the child
cry, the mother's heart rejoices, joy and worry surge, the heart and soul are filled with
this. The fourth grace of the mother's sweet and tender love, the mother's sincere love for
her child never
ceases. She never begrudges eating or speaking
to anyone, her beloved like gold and jewels, clinging to the child's hand,
never letting go,
hoping the child is well-fed and warm, even in the cold, the mother is happy. The great grace of the mother's care, the wetness and the cold, the hardship of carrying the child. The second grace of the mother's nurturing, the mother's love is as
deep as the earth, the father's love as vast as the sky, protecting and caring,
considering both parents equally.  That's all,
regardless of the prohibitions, the
dangers, the entanglement of limbs, because the child,
my flesh and blood, chose this life, never forgetting the seventh debt of gratitude. Washing and cleaning, a person with beauty, and adding the river's wax, born like a green willow, a red horse, a pink lotus, washing and offering a handkerchief,
not caring about the effort, as long as the
clothes are clean, the hair neatly tied up, that's it. Three debts of gratitude,
going far away, Mother's heart remembers, parting, the heart
cannot accept. The old mother is pitiful, the child goes far
away, mother is in her homeland, day and
night she remembers, morning and evening, still
like a garden of love for her child, a broken piece of paper.
Nine debts of gratitude for the child, for the child's whole heart,
creating so much evil karma, mother endures hardship, her old age is
like the sky, raising and nurturing,
hoping the child will eat and play, sharing food and
clothes, mother goes to the stream, happy to grow up,
finding a way to build a life, becoming a
person. The fifth debt of gratitude, mother chooses this life, loving her child, the
father's merit, the Mother's virtue is as deep as
the ocean and sky, overflowing with love, so that the child can
smile, the old mother, over a hundred years old, still
loves her child, never giving thanks. Gratitude and resentment
never cease, there are some children
who are unfilial.  Thinking of the
parents' sacrifices, the suffering, the endless worries, the autumn and
winter chills, the constant torment, the constant worry, the lack of care, the constant lack of warmth, the lack of visits, the lack of service, the neglect of parents, the longing, the shame, the shame of a child, the thick skin of a child, the old
parents, or the flower market, alone, always
sad. Those who sleep alone, a single
pillow in a room, watching the night, the cold
winter descends, the harshness, the hardship, the child
asks, "Are you a son or daughter?" The son, being obedient,
sees his parents sighing day and night. If it is a
son, if he is unfilial, when offering
food to his parents, he will be shy and
hesitant, hiding his face, but giving gifts and
cakes to his wife and
children, shamelessly and without shame. He obeys his
parents' every word without regret.
If it is a daughter, if she is
unfilial, before marriage, she will show understanding and filial piety, but after marriage, she will
return home. She will become
increasingly lazy, neglecting her maternal family, not caring about the holidays or the New Year. If she visits her parents, if there is any carelessness, she will become angry and
resentful, cursing her husband. She will
endure it, and her friends will be disheartened.  The love and devotion of the Son family
showed attentiveness to the mother and child. The blind woman, however, was
indifferent, or followed her husband to a foreign land, leaving her
parents far from
home, without remembering them,
without visiting, without letters, and without any
news of them. Though her heart ached with longing, she
always worried about her parents, morning and
evening. She hoped that the merits of her parents were immeasurable and boundless, and that she, as a child, would not be filial. Then, the assembly
heard the Buddha speak of the
immeasurable merits of parents, and upon hearing this, they
felt immense regret and were deeply moved,
unable to hold back their tears. Their hearts ached as if being cut, and they, in their
deceitful state, rose from their seats, bowed
to the Buddha, and said, "How painful it is! The
children of today are burdened with sin, their hearts broken. They did
not know their sins in the past, but now they know, but it is too late. It is heartbreaking to see such betrayal.
We humbly beg the Buddhas to examine this mortal, to radiate the Jade Light and
extend their hand.
How can we ever repay the kindness of our parents? The Buddhas admonished and forbade all
beings from doing this. These words, O beings, are
meant to repay the kindness of our parents. Because of our parents, we have copied
this sutra, this scripture, and spread it here and there for many to recite, for our
two parents to read."  Recite
this sutra daily. Do not neglect your parents. Practice
vegetarianism and repentance morning and evening. For
your parents are also part of the Three Jewels, and you should use them as you wish.
For your parents, remember to observe the six days of fasting.
For your parents are often busy.
Do all good deeds. If you can do that, then
you understand that you can save your parents. At that time, A
Lan immediately asked the Buddha, "I bow to the Buddha.
What sutra is this? Can we recite it
immediately?" The Buddha replied, "
You should know that this sutra is the Great Sutra of Gratitude to Parents.
All
sentient beings should follow it." At that time, the great assembly
heard the Buddha's words, believed, and respectfully performed the
ritual of thanksgiving and withdrew. The sutra
temporarily reveals the enlightenment of a great person, a disciple of the Buddha.
Remember and contemplate the three
enlightenments of great people. The
first enlightenment is that the world is impermanent, and
water is very fragile. The four elements are suffering, and the five aggregates are non-self, always arising and ceasing.
Changing,
false, and without intention is the source of
evil deeds; the body is a forest of karmic sins. If you observe
like that, you will gradually be free from birth and death. The
second enlightenment is that much desire is suffering.  The suffering of birth and death arises from greed and
desire.
If one has few desires and knows contentment, the
mind will be at ease. This is the third enlightenment.
If the mind is not content and only worries about greed, it
will increase evil deeds. A Bodhisattva is not like that. They
always remember worldly things, find joy in poverty, and
take wisdom as their pursuit. This is the fourth enlightenment.
Laziness leads to falling into higher realms. They diligently strive
to overcome afflictions and evil, subduing the
four demons and escaping the underworld. This is the
fifth enlightenment. The five delusions must be born from ignorance. Therefore,
Bodhisattvas always remember to learn widely and listen
much to increase wisdom and
achieve the ocean of wealth, then bring great joy to
all, teaching and guiding them to enlightenment. Sixth,
poverty and resentment often create many
evil karmic connections. Bodhisattvas practice equality
with enemies and friends, not remembering past mistakes, not
hating evil people, and all attain enlightenment. Seventh, the five
desires are calamities. Even in the worldly realm, they are
not tainted by sensual pleasures. Those who
have renounced the world and maintain the path always keep their vows
pure. They practice purity and compassion towards
all. This is the eighth enlightenment. Birth and death
are always accompanied by love, burning away suffering and affliction, truly unchanging, thus cultivating the mind.
Bodhi cultivation, seeking the sacred path to save
all beings, vows
to bear the immeasurable suffering in place of all sentient beings, so that
all beings may attain Great Peace and Bliss. The eight points
mentioned above are taught by the Buddhas and Bodhisattvas who, having
attained enlightenment and diligently practiced the
path of compassion and wisdom, followed the Dharma-body
to the shore of Nirvana, then returned to the cycle of birth and death to
liberate sentient beings. They also
teach these eight points to all beings, so that all
beings may know the suffering of birth and death, abandon the five desires, and cultivate the
mind according to the sacred path.
If a disciple of the Buddha follows these eight points,
in every moment they will eradicate
immeasurable sins and directly attain Bodhi. They will quickly become a minor enlightened being,
sever the path of birth and death, and always be at peace. The mantra of Pure Bliss leads to rebirth in the Pure Land: Amitabha Buddha, Bhagavatā, Yātī Dāta, Yātī Dāta, Amitabha Vikārā, Amitabha Vikālānta, Yātī Yānaṇī Dāka, Lī Xā Bhā Hā Lākāṭṭa, Amitabha Bhagavatā, Yātī Dāta, Yātī Dāta, Yātī Dāta, Yātī Dāta, Yānaṇī Dāka, Lī Xā Bhā Hā Lākāṭa, Amitabha Bhagavatā, Yātī Dāta ...ta Bhā Hā Lākāta, Y
Tha a di li do ba
ty A Di li da tat da ba ty A Di li da Ty
ca Lan de A Di li da Ty ca Lan da Ya
di nhe ga Ya la tri dat
ca Le X ba ha lang mo A Di da ba da da tha ga da Ya Da di ga tha a di di do ba ty A
Di di da that dam ba ty A Di ri da Ty
ca Lan de A Di ri da Ty ca Lan da ga di Nhi ga ga la tri da
ca Le X Ba
ha Buddha Amitabha, his body bright and clear, his
hands pure and incomparable, his face not radiating light, five mountains, his
face like four great oceans, in birth, his
halo transforms into Buddha form,
countless transformations, Bodhisattvas are also truly boundless, the Forty-Eight Vows pervade, saving
all, Nine grades of enlightenment, attaining Bodhi. Namo Western Pure Land
World Great Compassionate
Amitabha Buddha Namo
Western Pure Land World Great Compassionate Guiding Teacher Amitabha Buddha Namo Western Pure Land World Great Compassionate Amitabha Buddha Namo
Amitabha Buddha Namo  Amitabha Buddha Namo Amitabha Buddha Namo Amitabha Buddha Namo Amitabha Buddha Namo Amitabha Buddha Namo Avalokiteshvara Bodhisattva Namo Avalokiteshvara Bodhisattva Namo Avalokiteshvara Bodhisattva Namo Mahasthamaprapta Bodhisattva Namo Mahasthamaprapta Bodhisattva Namo Ksitigarbha Bodhisattva Namo Pure Great Ocean Assembly Bodhisattva Namo Pure Great Ocean Assembly Bodhisattva [Music] Sutra of bowing to the Great Mother of Gratitude [Music] Sutra of
bowing to the Buddha Shakyamuni, respectfully bowing to all Buddhas who have repaid the debt to father [
Music] respectfully bowing to the Great Sage Mara
[Music] Mother respectfully bowing to the Great Sage Guangmu, a
woman respectfully bowing to the Great Sage Miaotian who cut his hand to save
her father
[Music] King respectfully bowing to the Great Sage Mu Jiannian who
entered
prison to save his mother, respectfully bowing
to all Bodhisattvas who have repaid the debt  Father
[music]
Mother respectfully bows to the Buddha, the great Bodhisattva Kieu Dam,
respectfully bows to the teacher who saved Mara, the translator of
this sutra [music], dedicating all the merits and virtues to the teacher
throughout the Dharma realm, wishing that all sentient beings
may attain the state of non-birth, receive the
pure path, eliminate all afflictions, attain truly
bright wisdom, and have all karmic obstacles eradicated,
forever attaining the supreme Bodhisattva path,
wishing to be reborn in the Pure Land of the Western Paradise, the
nine grades of parents, seeing the
Buddha, attaining the state of non-birth, the Bodhisattva, the non-retreating Bodhisattva,
wishing to share the merits of this practice
throughout the ten directions,
seeing us and all beings together, attaining the
supreme enlightenment.
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni,
Namo Amitabha Buddha, all of
us disciples, we respectfully dedicate the merits of our practice, reading the
Sutra of the Great Treasure of the Dharma, the Vu Lan Festival of Filial Piety,
and all the merits of our family,
to the family of the devotee, wishing for peace, success
in all things, following the true
Dharma, and receiving the protection of all Buddhas. We
also respectfully dedicate these merits to
the departed soul and all departed souls.  May
the departed souls, having a connection with this Dharma assembly,
awaken and cultivate compassionate thoughts,
vowing to practice diligently so that they may soon be
reborn in the Buddha's realm. May all beings in the realm of the living and the deceased attain
Buddhahood. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. We take
refuge in the Buddha, and we pray that all beings
understand the
great path, develop Bodhicitta
[music]. We take refuge in the
Dharma, and we pray that all
beings delve deeply into the scriptures, their wisdom as vast as the
ocean [music]. We take refuge in the Sangha, and we pray that all beings understand the great principles
without
hindrance. May we dedicate this merit to all beings so that we may all attain
Buddhahood.
Respectfully, to the bereaved family and
all relatives who have come to pay their respects to the
departed soul, as well as all esteemed Dharma
friends, the Buddhist chanting ceremony
has concluded. We offer our
condolences to the entire family and pray
that the entire family will follow the true
Dharma of the Buddha, performing virtuous and
filial deeds as taught by the Buddha in the scriptures
to benefit the departed soul. We also
rejoice in all the merits of the Buddhist practitioners who have come
here to practice and dedicate the merits to the departed soul.
Namo Buddha  Dear esteemed
Dharma friends, above, I
have recited the Sutra of the Void, so that
when we go to
funeral homes, we can recite it together. We invite the congregation to join
hands and dedicate the
merits of our practice to
this Dharma realm, praying that all sentient beings may
practice within the Buddha's teachings.
May
this merit be directed towards all
disciples and
sentient beings who choose to attain Buddhahood.
[Music]
[Applause]